home on a quarter-acre block of land was
the Australian dream but it was a
sub-divided dream usually split on lines
of gender at the weekend the yard was
the Australian males territory he had
only a few duties in life he was
expected to be a good provider and to
service his wife and his Holden car on a
regular basis you know I think let's
call it Australia's own car
the kitchen was the domain of the
Australian female the kitchen was the
hob of their home little barrels to mine
above the stairs where we had a picture
of a kookaburra door it was a ledge and
there was a there was a doll the
condiments from different sized tips as
a friend
sugar self-rising flour and a big tin
another plane found the self agent now
and the rice gonna shook and then there
was the tea and the coffee though we
didn't go in for the coffee it wasn't
that type of tea we tended to have if we
so required at the coffee essence for
the chicory and she used that tin for
the desiccated coconut now of course
there was a tragedy in the 50s when a
boat carrying desiccated coconut to
Australia discovered that they had a
leper on board or terrible thing but
they had to dump the lot in the bottom
of the street but for a whole generation
coconut was off the market due to the
leprosy and that generation missed out
on lamingtons and the other ones are
giving us the trouble there
while husbands went to work housewives
did just about everything here in
kitchens like this she cooked three
scrumptious meals a day she washed up
afterwards
she planned sophisticated cocktail and
slide evenings she listened to the
wireless and slowly but surely went
totally insane
Portia faces life the rehabilitation
training scheme Ward is hardly a ward at
all part of it in fact
fortunately the Australian authorities
had a modern Mental Health Scheme to
deal with the downside of domesticity
inside there's a normal house resembling
as closely as possible the scene of pots
and pans that mrs. Hall will have to
deal with when she goes home
a lesson in makeup helps Margaret feel
light-hearted and feminine again then
comes the big step a voluntary worker
takes her to the supermarket to do the
shopping for the group it's a tough
ordeal but she's managed it courage on
her part nobody suffered from shopping
stress on Sundays the shops were firmly
shut Australia went to the beach each
weekend lemming-like we answered the
call of the sea bodies were bronzed
families were pondered and we all
disappeared under a layer of salt and
zinc oxide
there are 24 hours of sunshine every day
that you're in strangely the beach also
provided an opportunity for Australians
to enjoy their post-war craving for
regimentation the same urges were
catered for on sports fields and in
schoolyards we're young muscles could be
flexed that would never be flexed again
give us a strict tempo and we were happy
to fall into step
it started with Jim Vickers Willis and
the square dance craze which swept
Australia early in the decade and hit
rock bottom with the introduction of the
merry gooo mr. Campbell's really in a
hurry to teach Australians a new dance
he's met by his attractive wife Sue and
they're all set to make melbourne rock
and roll with a South American step they
call a merry gooo tight skirts and jeans
are out for you hep cats we were a very
eager and accommodating nation only too
delighted to be the guinea pigs for a
new South American dance craze or an
imported British atomic explosion we we
were happy and even grateful but we have
been chosen only seconds to go I stand
from the dazzling flash Sir William
penny Waits
great nation taking her full share in
the counsels of the British Commonwealth
and the world
I am indeed to be at the head of a
nation that has achieved so much
far more dramatic the nuclear Fisher was
any split in the nuclear family from
countless front doors Australian mothers
of the 1950s waved goodbye to their
children as they went to school for
their daughters it was home economics or
shorthand typing skills to equip them
for their brief span of Independence
between the leaving certificate and the
marriage certificate see when school
days were over
once again mothers stood on porches
waving goodbye to their sons
this time they were off to national
service this happened to me this wasn't
the real army of course there was no
risk of actually being killed however I
didn't relish my three months penal
servitude at PopCap annual military camp
70 miles from Melbourne back upon you by
the way is an Aboriginal word meaning
land of the outer barbarians that
include G to kill boys by the end of the
1950's we were ready to graduate to a
new Australia the Australia of the
sixties hairier and scarier